.TH RMD 1 "2024" "rmd 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rmd \- safe file removal with trash integration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmd
[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIFILE\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrmd\fR is a safety wrapper around the standard \fBrm\fR command that provides
additional protection against accidental data loss. Instead of permanently deleting
files, \fBrmd\fR moves them to the GNOME trash, from where they can be recovered.

.SH SAFETY FEATURES
.TP
.B System File Protection
Prevents deletion of files in protected system directories such as /bin, /usr,
/etc, /root, /sbin, /lib, /opt, /var, /sys, /proc, /dev, and /boot.

.TP
.B Folder Detection
Detects when attempting to delete a directory and prompts for confirmation.

.TP
.B Config File Warnings
Warns when attempting to delete hidden files or common configuration files.

.TP
.B Trash Integration
Moves deleted files to ~/.local/share/Trash instead of permanently removing them,
following the XDG Trash specification.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Skip safety prompts. Files are still moved to trash unless 'D' is selected in
the prompt.

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-R ", " \-\-recursive
Remove directories and their contents recursively.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Explain what is being done.

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information and exit.

.SH PROMPTS
When deleting files, \fBrmd\fR may prompt with the following options:
.TP
.B Y
Move file to trash (default action).
.TP
.B n
Cancel the operation.
.TP
.B D
Permanently delete the file (bypass trash, uses actual \fBrm\fR).

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Delete a single file:
.B rmd file.txt

.TP
Delete a directory recursively:
.B rmd -r directory/

.TP
Delete multiple files:
.B rmd file1.txt file2.txt file3.txt

.TP
Skip prompts (still uses trash):
.B rmd -f config.txt

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
User cancelled or file not found
.TP
.B 2
System file protection triggered
.TP
.B 3
Failed to create trash directories

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rm (1),
.BR trash-cli (1)

.SH NOTES
This is a safety wrapper. For permanent deletion without prompts, use \fBrm\fR directly.
To alias \fBrm\fR to \fBrmd\fR, add the following to your ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc:
.RS
.PP
alias rm='rmd'
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
Written as a safety wrapper for the standard rm command.
